Warp 5...
Warp 6...
Warp 7.
critical velocity.
I've reached
looks good on this end.
Okay, everything
B'ELANNA:
the new engines.
Fire up
Acknowledged.
Engaging transwarp drive
in four...
three...two...
( beeping )
( rumbling )
Transwarp online!
Warp 9.2...
9.3...
My vector's
drifting.
your field symmetry.
Try to stabilize
KIM:
Got it.
Warp 9.6...
9.7...
( alarm beeping )
in the port nacelle pylon.
I'm reading a fracture
to structural integrity.
B'ELANNA:
Full power
Warp 9.9...
9.95...
I'm approaching
the threshold.
( grunts )
But the nacelle
isn't holding.
Tie in auxiliary power.
KIM:
It's no use.
I'm breaking up! I'm breaking---
( yells )
( dramatic theme plays )
You're dead.
( sighs )
( triumphant theme playing )
( dramatic theme playing )
pylon again.
It's the
to crossing the threshold,
Every time we get close
a nacelle off the shuttle.
the subspace torque rips
a duranium alloy?
What about
We could try using
it to reinforce--
I thought about that already.
It's too brittle.
More coffee?
you look like a happy bunch.
Ah,
We've hit a wall.
Oh. Well, maybe I can help.
Great. Do you know anything
about quantum warp theory
or multispectral subspace
engine design?
but I'm a quick study.
No,
What are we working on?
( clears throat )
Do you have anything to eat?
There's some Kalavian biscuits
Sure.
somewhere in the kitchen.
I'll go find them myself.
I guess
Fill him in.
Neelix...
KIM:
It would take
too long to--
I'm not smart enough?
What are you saying?
I'll have you know
I did two years
aboard a Trabalian freighter.
as an engineer's assistant
I'm well-versed
in warp theory.
we'll tell you.
Okay, okay,
the maximum warp barrier.
We're trying to break
Nothing in the universe
can go warp 10.
It's a theoretical
impossibility.
if you were ever
In principle,
traveling at infinite velocity.
to reach warp 10, you'd be
Infinite velocity.
So, tha-that means very fast.
Got it.
you would occupy
It means that
the universe simultaneously.
every point in
any place in the wink of an eye.
In theory, you could go
would have no meaning.
Time and distance
If Voyager achieved
warp 10,
as it takes to push a button.
we could be home in as long
Wow!
And you're working
on this?
a new form of dilithium
We discovered
we surveyed last month.
in the asteroid field
a much higher warp frequency.
It remains stable at
The problem is,
every time
the transwarp threshold,
we simulate crossing
torn off the ship.
the nacelles get
I remember there was a time when
I lost a warp nacelle
a dark matter nebula.
going through
a very different problem.
This is
I'm just using it as an example.
I realize that.
through the nebula,
As the ship went
a dark matter bow wave.
it sent out
so much pressure built up,
Eventually,
it tore the nacelle
from its housing.
Now, maybe the same thing
is happening to you.
The simulations
don't indicate
any kind of subspace stress
on the nacelles.
Wait a minute.
PARIS:
the shuttle itself?
What about
What do you mean?
Maybe we've been looking
in the wrong place.
aren't being torn from the ship?
What if the nacelles
What if the ship is being torn
from the nacelles?
is made of tritanium alloy.
The hull of the shuttle
we're talking about,
At the speeds
could depolarize...
that alloy
a velocity differential.
And create
would be traveling
The fuselage
at a faster rate of speed
than the nacelles.
we just have to set up
That means
a depolarization matrix
around the fuselage.
That's it!
you're a genius.
Neelix,
( chuckling )
what they just said.
I have no idea
Warp 9.92.
are secure.
The pylons
Everything
looks good.
9.97...
8...
9...
( whooshing )
( sighs )
Warp 10.
You've crossed the threshold.
B'ELANNA:
been no damage to the nacelles.
You've done it! And there's
When you came to me
a month ago
you had a way
and said
the transwarp threshold,
to cross
of a fantasy than a theory.
I thought it was more
Congratulations
to all of you.
a manned test flight?
So we can try
What's your flight plan?
I'll bring the shuttle
up to speed.
I cross the threshold,
The second
drop out of warp and come about.
I'll cut the engines,
After that, we'll analyze
the shuttle's sensor logs.
to travel at transwarp,
Once we know it's safe
a more extended flight.
we'll try
it's almost frightening.
To be honest,
it's all been theory.
Up till now,
it would actually happen.
I never thought
Are we ready for it?
In the last couple
of centuries,
we've always managed to use
new technologies wisely.
I'm confident
be any different.
this time won't
Besides, there's no way to put
the genie back in the bottle.
All we can do now is keep
moving forward...
carefully.
Well, good luck,
Mr. Paris.
If this works, you'll be joining
an elite group of pilots.
Orville Wright, Neil Armstrong,
Zefram Cochrane...
And Tom Paris.
the way that sounds.
I kind of like
I thought you might.
( dramatic theme playing )
( door chimes )
( door opens )
Come in.
Oh. Captain!
I, um...
At ease, Mr. Paris.
I know it's late.
( sighs )
( clears throat )
Get you anything?
Can I...
No, thank you.
why do I get the feeling
Now,
just a social call?
this isn't
I've just spoken to
the doctor...
and it's his opinion
that we let Ensign Kim make
the test flight.
( scoffs softly )
May I ask why?
your biometric readings
He checked over
shuttle simulations.
from the
have a slight
He says you
enzymatic imbalance
in your cerebellum.
So?
I know it doesn't sound
like much,
but he can't predict
what'll happen
when you cross
the threshold.
He believes there's
a small chance
that you could suffer
a brain hemorrhage
subspace stress.
under the
How big a chance?
Two percent.
( scoffs )
Two percent?
( sighs )
I'll take that chance.
There's no reason to.
Ensign Kim is capable
of piloting the shuttle
for this mission.
Yeah, he's capable.
That's not the point.
What is the point,
Mr. Paris?
Well, it's hard to explain,
but...
this is my flight.
Your flight.
When I was a boy,
my father used to tell me
that I was special,
I'd do something significant.
that one day
My teachers at school,
all the kids,
everyone used to say,
"Tom Paris is gonna
do something important
when he grows up."
( sighs )
that didn't happen.
Obviously,
personal redemption.
This isn't about
about medical risk.
We're talking
Your life could be in danger,
and we need you.
Captain, this is the first time
in 10 years
I feel I have a life
to risk.
You're sure about this.
Captain, I've never been so sure
about anything.
Please.
let me make the flight.
Please,
Good luck, Lieutenant.
( door opens, closes )
( sighs )
Torres to Bridge.
The prelaunch sequence
is complete, Captain.
Acknowledged.
depressurize the shuttle bay
Ensign Kim,
the space doors.
and open
Aye, Captain.
KIM:
Shuttlecraft Cochrane.
Bridge to
You're cleared
for launch.
Aye, Captain.
PARIS:
See you at warp 10.
( dramatic theme playing )
Cochrane to Voyager.
All systems are nominal.
I'm increasing speed.
We'll keep up with you
as long as we can.
JANEWAY:
( console beeps )
( chuckles )
warp 8...
Warp 7,
How's his dilithium matrix
holding up?
There's a slight variance
in the warp field,
to worry about.
but nothing
Shuttlecraft Cochrane.
Torres to
for transwarp velocity.
You're clear
Acknowledged.
Engaging transwarp drive
in four...
three...
two...
Warp 9.7...
PARIS:
9.8...
( muddled ):
9.9...
our maximum velocity.
He is exceeding
to long-range sensors.
I am switching
Warp 9.95!
PARIS:
He is approaching
the threshold.
TUVOK:
Engine output at maximum.
Velocity...
Warp 10.
Yes!
Transwarp engines are stable.
PARIS:
So are the nacelle pylons.
I'm going to--
( voice distorting ):
Oh, my God....
( distortion increases ):
Oh, my...
can you hear me?
Lieutenant,
( console beeping )
KIM: Captain, he just...
Just disappeared
off sensors.
Increase sensor gain
to maximum.
Nothing.
I can't find him.
He's gone.
( dramatic theme continues )
three full sensor sweeps.
I've done
No sign of the shuttle
within five parsecs.
Tuvok, could the shuttle
have been destroyed?
believe so.
I don't
Sensors indicate that he did
cross the warp threshold.
If that's true, then he could be
anywhere in the universe.
searching our small corner.
We'll just have to keep
Run a multispectral sweep.
I want to see if--
TUVOK:
Captain,
there's a quantum surge
off the port bow.
Something is coming
out of subspace.
Janeway to Paris.
KIM: He's alive,
but his life signs
are weak.
Transporter Room 2.
Bridge to
directly to Sickbay.
Beam Mr. Paris
the shuttle aboard.
Commander, bring
in Sickbay.
I'll be
Aye, Captain.
His life signs
are normal.
DOCTOR:
serotonin readings
A few elevated
in the hypothalamus.
From what I can tell,
he's just...
asleep.
Can you wake him?
I don't see why not.
( gasping )
Wake up, Lieutenant!
( sighs )
Are you all right, Tom?
I'm back.
We tracked you until you
crossed the threshold.
Then you disappeared
from our sensors.
Do you remember
what happened?
Oh, yeah.
I was...
the velocity indicator.
I was staring at
It said warp 10.
as I watched it,
And then,
I suddenly realized
that I was...
watching myself
as well.
I could see the outside
of the shuttle.
I could see Voyager.
inside Voyager.
I could see
inside this room.
For a moment...
I was everywhere.
everywhere, Captain.
I mean,
With the Kazon...
Back home, with the Klingons,
other galaxies,
it was all there.
I don't know how else
to explain it.
It was like...
it wasn't like anything.
Well, no,
DOCTOR:
Well...
you had a good time.
I'm glad
How did you get back
to Voyager?
were looking for me,
I saw that you
so I took the new engines
off-line
back where I started.
and ended up
But...
Oh, it's starting
to slip away.
It all was so vivid,
and now...
B'ELANNA:
Tom!
Oh, I'm fine.
How's the shuttle?
You brought it back
without a scratch.
confirm that you did it.
The onboard sensors
You made it
to warp 10.
Congratulations,
Mr. Paris.
JANEWAY:
the history books.
You just made
We should download
the shuttle's
analyze the telemetry
sensor logs,
they picked up during the flight
before we make another attempt.
going anywhere,
You're not
for a few hours.
at least not
I have some tests I'd like
to run on your majesty
before I release
you back
of ordinary humans.
into the realm
You may...proceed.
We'll download
the logs.
I'll let you know
what we find.
( dramatic theme playing )
Janeway to Kim.
We're ready.
Acknowledged.
the Engineering computer core.
I'm downloading the logs into
( console beeping)
This data describes,
literally,
every cubic centimeter
in this sector.
gigiquads of information.
It's over 5 billion
It would appear that the theory
of infinite velocity is correct.
It may be possible to occupy
every point in the universe
simultaneously.
navigation. If we could figure
Then, it's just a matter of
B'ELANNA:
transwarp at a specific point...
out how to come out of
...this could get us home.
Oh, it could do more
than that.
It could change the very nature
of our existence.
Think of it.
There would be nothing
beyond our reach.
invaluable record of the sector.
This telemetry is giving us an
to make a star chart.
We can use it
Transfer the shuttle logs
to Stellar Cartography
for analysis.
Right.
a new blend.
This is
I'm calling it
Paris Delight.
( chuckles )
It's in honor
of you.
What?
Oh, thanks.
Oh!
very flattering.
That's
I can tell.
Well, you might as well get used
to it. You're a hero now.
Heh, I wish I could say
it was nothing.
Oh!
would name something after me
Oh, I wish Neelix
that tasted a little better.
No. Trust me.
It smells okay.
You're taking your life
into your hands.
So I think the next step
the first shuttle flight,
is to try to duplicate
verify our results.
I agree.
that none of this was a fluke.
We have to confirm
that we should increase
But I do think
the shuttle's memory core
by at least...
( beeping )
What? What's wrong?
( exhaling )
I don't think that coffee
is settling too well.
You wanna go back
to Sickbay?
of the doctor for one day.
No, no. I've seen enough
( groaning )
On second thought,
Oh...
maybe I should--
( groaning )
Torres to Transporter Room 2.
Medical emergency.
Beam Lieutenant Paris
directly to Sickbay.
I can't lock onto him.
MAN:
His pattern keeps changing.
Torres to Sickbay.
in the mess hall right away.
We need a medical team
Hang on,
Tom.
( gasping )
Hmm.
It looks like he's having
an allergic reaction.
he ingest?
What did
of Neelix's coffee.
Just a cup
he's still alive.
It's a miracle
( beeping )
This is strange.
What is?
He's definitely having
an allergic reaction...
in the coffee.
to the water
He's allergic to water?
how this is possible, but...
I don't know
It appears that his entire
biochemistry is changing.
are breaking down,
His electrolytes
interstitial fluids
are congealing.
( gasping acutely )
( gasping continues )
( dramatic theme playing )
The alveoli in his lungs
are mutating.
processing oxygen.
He's no longer
What should we do?
Stand back.
an isolation field
Computer, erect
the surgical bay.
around
Computer, remove all the air
from within the force field
and replace it with
80 percent nitrogen
and 20 percent
acidichloride.
( gasping )
( normal breathing )
He can breathe...
for now.
What's happening
to him?
I have no idea,
but I assume it had
something to do
with his experience
on the shuttle.
( Paris screaming )
( console beeping )
( Paris gasping )
(beeping )
His cellular membranes
are deteriorating.
He's dying.
what happened on that shuttle,
I need to know more about
to know it now.
and I need
Radiation levels, unexplained
anomalies, anything.
You're losing me,
aren't you?
I'm gonna die.
You're too stubborn to die,
Mr. Paris.
I want to try high-saturation
radiometric therapy.
his cellular mutation.
It might slow down
Thomas Eugene Paris,
Here lies
PARIS:
beloved mutant.
A fitting
epitaph,
let you use it just yet.
but I don't intend to
are charged and ready.
Radiometric emitters
Begin with 45 rads per second.
beloved radioactive mutant.
Great. Now it'll read
No effect. Increase the dosage
to 85 rads per second.
I'm going to try inhibiting
the cell mitosis with
a bio-suppressor field.
A big funeral,
with lots of pretty girls
all crying...
Except Torres.
Do you ever notice that?
Torres doesn't cry.
I don't trust people
who don't cry.
my father...
Of course,
is a sign of weakness.
he'd say crying
I never believed that.
Do you cry?
It's not in my program.
Shame.
Heh, you know, it's funny.
What I remember most
about being a kid
are the times I spent
in my room crying.
I liked my room, though.
It was quiet in there.
People'd leave me alone.
I'd keep the door locked.
Read, play games.
Heh, I lost my virginity
in that room.
Seventeen.
Parents were away
for the weekend.
in your medical file.
I'll note that
( instrument beeps sharply )
( groaning softly )
His lymphatic system
is collapsing.
Increase dosage to 98 rads
per second.
Pepperoni!
a pepperoni pizza
God, I'd love
with Kavarian olives right now.
I'm starving!
His life signs are critical.
Maximum dosage.
Oh... Kiss me.
What?
Not you. Her.
the atmosphere in here.
She can't breathe
Consider it a last request.
Sorry, Tom. If we let down the
force field, you'll suffocate.
Oh, what's the difference?
I'm dying anyway.
Do me a favor.
When I'm gone...
Starfleet Headquarters...
call
And tell Dad that I did it.
Tell him...
( instrument beeping sharply )
the neural simulator.
Prepare to activate
Ready.
KES:
Now.
( gasping )
Again.
Again!
( dramatic theme playing )
( instrument sounds
steady tone )
No neural activity.
We can try to revive him.
His cell membranes
have degraded.
There's nothing more
we can do.
Computer...
( beeps )
Remove the acidichloride gas
from the isolation field...
( beeps )
And deactivate the field.
( dramatic theme continues )
It will be necessary
for us to perform an autopsy
on the Lieutenant's body
in the morning.
Until then, I...
suggest you get
some rest.
( dramatic theme continues )
( creaking )
( creaking continues )
( breathing heavily )
You're alive.
( panting )
What's happening?
Wha--
All of your internal organs
are functioning again.
In fact...
You seem to have
an extra one.
What?
You have...two hearts.
( suspenseful theme playing )
( beeping )
30 seconds before
I have
Security picks up
this transmission.
all current information
I'm sending you
shuttle flight.
on the warp 10
Warp 10?
That's impossible.
Not anymore.
the threshold this morning.
Lieutenant Paris crossed
He survived?
In a manner of speaking.
It's all in the file.
This should prove my worth
to you, Rettik.
We'll see.
( beeps )
( sighs )
His body is going
through some sort
DOCTOR:
of mutation.
is rewriting itself.
His DNA
I don't know.
To what end,
Does this have
anything to do
with the enzymatic
imbalance you found?
No.
Can you stop it?
nothing has worked.
So far,
The mutations are
unlike anything
medical records.
in Starfleet
are being rearranged.
His internal organs
Some have atrophied
and been absorbed
into his body.
three others that have appeared
And there are at least
and have no identifiable
function at all.
What about his brain?
There are neuro-electrical
transmutations at work.
changing...almost every second.
His synaptic patterns are
But he does still
recognize me...
the ship.
He knows who he is.
Can I talk to him?
Of course.
should caution you
But I feel I
still is Tom Paris,
that while he
he's becoming something
else as well.
erratic, unpredictable.
His personality is
There are moments
of lucidity
with almost...
interspersed
deranged behavior.
I'll keep it
in mind.
( beeping )
Pretty disgusting,
huh?
You've looked better.
How do you feel?
Like a lab experiment
gone wrong.
Well, we're trying to put
that experiment right.
The doctor's working on a way
to restore your DNA to its--
Why?
Excuse me?
What I'm becoming will probably
be better than who I was.
you know that's not true.
Lieutenant,
Oh, yes, it is.
Admit it.
Part of you will be glad
to see me gone.
who sits on your Bridge
I'm the Maquis traitor
and insults your uniform,
remember?
We're all concerned
about you, Tom.
We're here to help you.
No, you're not.
You're trying to take this
away from me.
Take what away from you?
What I'm becoming.
this isn't good for me?
How do you know
this isn't
the best thing that's ever
happened to me?
That's a possibility,
it could kill you.
and then again,
We need to find out
what's going on.
( scoffs )
You're lying...
Just like him...
Just like everyone
around here,
always lying,
always telling me that I'm
doing a good job,
that you're glad
I'm on the ship,
but none of that's true.
Why can't you
just say it?
You're jealous that I broke
the transwarp barrier
and now you're hoping
I'll die!
You're right, doctor.
anything I can do here.
I don't think there's
Wait, Captain.
I'm sorry.
Please come back.
what you can. It's just...
I know you're doing
I'm scared.
to lash out at you.
I didn't mean
What you're going through
would scare any of us,
but you have to hang on,
Tom.
We're doing everything we can
to help you.
I know you are.
And I know you'll fail!
( groans )
( dramatic theme playing )
( panting )
You know...
I used to look up to you,
but now you seem so small,
so insignificant.
You don't even know what--
What-- What--
( choking )
( Paris panting )
( chuckles softly )
( dramatic theme playing )
( beeping )
Doctor?
of genetic mutation
The rate
has accelerated
by 12 percent.
I want you to run
a nucleogenic scan
to determine how much of his
original DNA is left intact.
In the meantime, I'm going to
see about treating him with--
Doctor!
PARIS:
( sighs )
What is it now,
Mr. Paris?
I need to talk.
( lisping ):
So I've noticed.
Is it urgent?
I'm rather busy
right now.
Urgent.
Yes, urgent.
Let...
me out of here.
that's not possible.
I'm afraid
Please.
I can't stay here.
I have to get off this ship.
Leave Voyager?
Why?
( sighs )
I...
understand.
It's all so clear now.
you understand?
What do
The present...
The past...
in the future.
They're both
is in the past.
The future
I beg your pardon?
Listen to me!
I am more...
I'm everything.
Let me go.
Go where,
Tom?
I can't...
( panting )
Please?
Please!
Something tells me
we'd better hurry.
I believe the answer lies
in forcing his DNA
its original coding.
to revert to
his body should return
Once that occurs,
How do we do that?
to its former state.
We destroy all of the new DNA
in his body.
His cells will have to use the
original coding as a blueprint.
to destroy the mutant DNA
But the only way
is with highly focused
antiproton radiation.
The only place on this ship
antiprotons?
which generates antiprotons
is the warp core.
I'd like to place Mr. Paris
Exactly.
in an isotropic restraint
and then infuse it
with controlled antiproton
bursts. A tricky venture,
no other alternative.
but I see
the warp core off-line.
We'll have to take
Then I'll need about three hours
to set up an interface.
In three hours,
there won't be
of Mr. Paris to save.
anything left
within an hour, at the most.
We have to make the attempt
Get moving.
( dramatic theme playing )
( panting )
What's your status,
Lieutenant?
DOCTOR:
is charged and ready.
The interface
Infuse him with a two second
antiproton burst.
Take the warp engines
off-line.
( whooshing of engine )
Bleed off
.057 AMUs
of antiproton
radiation.
Shunt it through
the interface.
Transfer
underway.
( rattling )
Doctor, the mutated DNA
in his liver cells
to deteriorate,
has begun
but the original coding
isn't taking over.
This should be working.
I don't understand.
the duration of the bursts.
We'll have to increase
prepare a five second burst.
Lieutenant,
to begin depolarizing--
Also, you'll need
( crashing )
My God.
Lieutenant?
DOCTOR:
WOMAN: Call Security!
( loud crashing )
what's happening?
Lieutenant,
I got it right now!
MAN 1:
( yelling )
Shut it all down.
MAN 2:
( dramatic theme playing )
( static buzzing )
( comlink beeps )
This is a level 3
security alert.
TUVOK:
to duty stations.
All hands report
( alarm blaring )
Janeway to Bridge.
Report.
Paris broke out of confinement
in Engineering.
CHAKOTAY:
on the port plasma conduit.
He used a phaser
We have power failures
all over the ship.
Where is he now?
JANEWAY:
We're having trouble
tracking him.
to the internal sensors.
We can't get power
Tuvok has security teams
searching deck by deck.
I'm on my way
to the Bridge.
( door beeps )
( heavy breathing )
( yells )
( grunts )
Oh, oh...
Phaser discharge
on Deck 6.
Localize it.
I'm still having trouble
with internal sensors.
KIM:
It came from somewhere
between Sections 21
and 27-Alpha.
any security in that area.
Tuvok doesn't have
to Tuvok.
Chakotay
may be on Deck 6.
We think Paris
to Sections 21 through 27-Alpha.
Deploy security
( dramatic theme playing )
depressurizing Shuttle Bay 2.
Commander, someone's
What?
There's a launch
in progress.
KIM:
Tractor beam.
It's off-line.
TUVOK: Tuvok to Bridge.
( comlink beeps )
We found the Captain's phaser
on Deck 6,
no sign of her.
but there's
( dramatic theme playing )
Maintain a sensor lock
on that shuttle.
( equipment powering up )
main power back.
I've got
Engage warp engines.
Follow them.
Aye, Commander.
WOMAN:
( sighs )
They're approaching
warp 9.9.
Increase speed
to match.
maximum warp velocity.
Warning. Nearing
COMPUTER:
Structural collapse
is imminent.
( rumbling )
Are we in tractor range?
accelerating. Warp 9.97.
No. And they're still
Warning. At present speed,
COMPUTER:
structural failure
in 45 seconds.
Reduce speed
to warp 9.5.
Keep a sensor lock on them
as long as you can.
( console beeps )
I've lost them,
Commander.
to transwarp.
They've gone
( dramatic theme playing )
First Officer's log,
stardate 49373.4.
CHAKOTAY:
It's taken us three days
to locate the shuttle.
It appears to have dropped
out of transwarp
in an uninhabited
star system.
on Mr. Paris' transformation
I've re-examined the data
and I think I understand
what's happening to him.
The mutations
we observed are natural.
Natural.
The changes in his DNA
are consistent
with the evolutionary
development
of the
human genotype
observed over
the past 4 million years.
Increased brain capacity,
the loss of vestigial organs...
Lieutenant Paris
Are you saying
is evolving?
That's
my theory.
The only difference
between natural
evolution and what happened
to Mr. Paris
is that his changes took place
over a 24-hour period.
at infinite velocity
Somehow, traveling
human evolutionary process
accelerated the natural
by millions of years.
It's possible that
Mr. Paris represents
in human development.
a future stage
Although I can't say
it's very attractive.
What do we do about it?
I think my antiproton
approach was correct.
to intensify the treatment
However, I'll need
his original DNA.
to restore
KIM: Bridge to Chakotay.
( comlink beeps )
Go ahead.
the shuttlecraft, Commander.
I think I found
KIM:
the fourth planet
It's on
in one of the jungles
near the equator.
Acknowledged. Tuvok, have
a security team meet us
in Transporter
Room 3.
( crickets chirping )
( ominous theme playing )
( chittering )
( beeping )
There are traces
of human DNA.
It's them.
to admit...
But I have
I'm not sure which one
is the Captain.
The female...
obviously.
( chittering )
to enter this into the log.
I don't know how I'm going
I look forward to reading it.
First Officer's log,
supplemental.
CHAKOTAY:
and Mr. Paris back to Sickbay.
We've transported the Captain
As for their...offspring,
I've decided to leave them
in their new habitat.
I've eradicated
all traces
of the mutant DNA
from your system
and restored your
original genome.
Congratulations.
Thank you, doctor.
You're human again.
Captain, it'll take some time
for your genetic codes
to stabilize. I'd like you
to remain in Sickbay
for the next three days.
Just to be safe.
Excuse me.
Captain, uh...
PARIS:
about having children.
I've thought
considered having them with you.
But I must say, I never
( chuckles )
Captain, I'm sorry.
what to say, except...
I-I don't know
very much about...
I don't remember
Uh...
You know.
What makes you think
it was your idea?
Sometimes it's the female
of a species
that initiates mating.
But apology accepted,
nonetheless.
( chuckles )
You may be interested
to know I'm putting you in
for a commendation.
Regardless of the outcome,
the first transwarp flight.
you did make
Thank you, Captain.
Is there something wrong,
Lieutenant?
I don't know.
whole experience
I guess this
a little overwhelmed.
has left me feeling
Flying at warp 10...
a new lifeform,
Evolving into
alien offspring...
mating, having
You've broken more
than one record.
( chuckles )
That's for sure.
Breaking the threshold.
It was...
incredible.
as much as I thought it would.
But somehow, it doesn't mean
Oh?
I guess I went
into this
looking for a quick fix.
I thought making history
would change things,
my service record...
not just
My reputation.
If I'm not mistaken,
you've changed quite a few
minds on this ship.
You've earned a lot
of people's respect
and admiration.
Yeah.
But I'm starting
to realize
other people's opinions
that it's not
I should be worried about.
It's mine.
Heh, it seems,
Captain,
a few barriers to break.
that I still have
theoretical impossibilities.
I just hope they're not
Somehow...
I don't think they will be.
( dramatic theme playing )
( triumphant theme playing )